Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
All right, so in this lecture we're
going to break down the browser,
what it is, what it does, and what you need
to know about it to get up to speed.
Do you happen to know what a browser
already does and do you also already
happen to have an obnoxiously strong opinion about Internet Explorer?
Well, in that case, skip this lecture, otherwise, let's move forward.
Ok, you know what I mean by a browser, right?
It's that thing you're probably watching this on right now.
The way we think of them today is that they're portals to the web
and chock full of rich features and extensions,
extensions so rich and decadent
they freeze your browser - seriously, Chrome, I don't understand why.
Want some more trite and unoriginal descriptions of browsers?
Well, I'm here to service you.
Door to the internet.
The surfboard for your surfing.
The gateway to memes.
How you read your Gmail.
Yeah, that's about it.
All right, let's get into some actual details.
What is a browser? Well, let's break it down.
Browsers are like any other software program,
and that's the first thing you need to understand.
Anyone with a decent level of programming knowledge
can make an actual attempt at building a browser.
Remember when we talked about the
World Wide Web and why it was such a big deal?
Well, remember? It's because what they did
was they standardized the way that
computers access information from each other.
Previously, in order to communicate, they had to have
the exact same software and the exact same hardware.
The internet browser is just a logical extension to that.
World Wide Web made this information uniform. Great.
How do we access it? That's what a browser is.
Really, you just need to think of a browser like
a software program that has two basic functions.
The first function is that it can establish
a persistent connection with the server
where you can access files to view the
website you want to view. Awesome.
The second function is that it can
translate web programming into something
your operating system can actually understand.
Later on in the course, we're going to talk about
the actual nitty gritty of programming and code,
but for now you just need to understand
that when programmers program,
they're essentially just writing instructions
for a computer to execute and handle.
In order to manipulate a browser into
displaying something beautiful and pretty,
or ugly and clunky like the website you're on (don't tell Udemy),
they have to use web code. Why web code?
Well, don't worry about it right now, we'll get to it later.
So your browser is just an interpreter for a very specific language.
It takes that very specific language, translates it to
something your operating system
can understand, which then in turn
translates it down to machine code,
that the hardware can act on.
And that is how you see a change on your screen.
So how does this new understanding and
way of thinking affect the browsers we use?
Well, for one, there are, believe it or not,
several hundred browsers out there.
Most of you have probably only heard
of maybe four or five of them.
The most commonly used ones, in order of popularity, start with
one, the most popular, the king Google
Chrome, then two, Mozilla Firefox,
three, Internet Explorer, which actually just changed its name to
something that I will never speak,
four, Safari, and five, Opera.
Since all of these are actually just versions
of the same interpreting service,
are they any different and how
do we actually distinguish between them?
Well, believe it or not, every browser
has a different way of interpreting web code,
and hence, if you've ever switched browsers
and looked at the same website,
if you really look closely, you'll notice that
it may actually look quite a bit different.
Think of it kind of like verbal language translations.
There is always different ways of interpreting a sentence,
and one of them is probably more or less correct than another,
but you can certainly give it multiple translations.
If you want to have some fun,
actually you can stop and go do this.
Go to Google Translate and type something in English,
and then have it translate to Vietnamese,
and then translate it to Spanish, and then back to English.
It comes back as the most garbled nonsense you have ever read.
I blame it on the Vietnamese.
Ok, so each browser interprets the same website differently.
What does that mean to me and us?
That means, well, if you get into web development
or you manage a team of web developers,
* Anybody can herd cattle, hold them together,
but ten thousand half-wild short hairs,
now that's another thing altogether *
you're probably going to spend a
significant amount of time making sure the site
you've spent so much time building
correctly loads in every single browser.
Opera, that browser you've probably
never heard of, is technically
the most accurate interpreter, but no one really cares,
because they all use Google Chrome,
and they like its look, and feel, and its crazy extensions,
or maybe they love the absolute level of customization of Firefox,
or maybe they're just a terrible person
and that's why they use Internet Explorer.
I'm obviously kidding about that last one, but it is
considered to be the least accurate of the five,
and almost any web developer will have a
very strong opinion about Internet Explorer.
This is simply a reality of how the web works.
Next time you're talking to a web
developer, casual conversation,
ask how they feel about Internet Explorer.
Fun fact, Firefox, that browser you use with
the little red fox on it, that is actually a non-profit.
A non-profit that specifically makes,
give or take, $300 million a year.
How do they make $300 million a year?
Well, I'll give you brownie points if you
figure it out and you post in the Q&A.
So browsers are one of those things that non-technical people
probably think the least amount about,
or probably just take for granted.
How often do you honestly think about
what your browser is actually doing?
If I had to guess, I'd say probably never.
But all you need to know is that it is,
at its core function, an interpreter
that knows how to display web code files, and it just
packages that up in a convenient, easy to use way.
Is this mind boggling? Maybe, maybe not.
But you need to get into the mindset of thinking
of your browser like that, like an interpreter,
and guess what? If you're going
to be programming in any way,
you're going to need to make the browser
your best friend and understand it really well.
All right guys, that's all we need to talk about with browsers.
See you in the next lecture!